Build Documentation (#13540)
rustdesk/rustdesk: BUILDING.md

            - OS X:
                Brew installs NASM version 3.01. This version's output has changes that make it incompatible with the build of AOM (below). In order to build AOM, NASM version 2.16.03 should be used. To install this on OS X, commands like these can be used:

                ```
                curl https://www.nasm.us/pub/nasm/releasebuilds/2.16.03/macosx/nasm-2.16.03-macosx.zip -o nasm.zip
                unzip nasm.zip
                rm nasm.zip
                mv nasm-2.16.03 nasm
                export PATH=~/nasm:$PATH
                ```

                Add the last line to `~/.zprofile` to make the change persist.
        - `libtool` (`libtool-bin`)
        They are often already installed, but if not, install with your distribution's package manager (e.g. `apt install pkg-config autoconf make cmake g++-13 ...`).

        > [Linux] NB: On alternatives-based systems, if Clang is installed before GCC, then `/usr/bin/c++` might run Clang instead of GCC. If this happens, you will likely encounter build errors. One way to fix this might be to remove the Clang and GCC packages and then reinstall them starting with GCC `g++` (`g++-13`).

>         > [Linux] NB: On the newest systems, as of this writing, `g++` installs version 15. This is not compatible with all of the Rust crates needed by RustDesk and will cause build errors. When an earlier version is installed, however, the `/usr/bin/c++` link might not be configured to run it. You may need to explicitly configure your system's alternatives mechanism, with a command such as `update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/c++ c++ ``which g++-13`` 13`, or manually create a symbolic link from `/usr/bin/c++` to the correct path for a compatible `g++` version.

Reviewer: This feels like a... confused phrasing? It is spiritually correct but "`g++` installs" is wrong because the *package manager* is what "installs" anything, and even referring to `g++` as a *package* is... unlikely. The actually-relevant package is probably `gcc`... *or* something like `make-devel` or `build-essential`.

Also, "newest" is somewhat confounding. For "rolling release" distros, you are always at the "newest", every time you update. Another way to phrase this might be...

```suggestion
        > [Linux] NB: If your distro provides gcc 15 for `c++`, then `g++` will not be compatible with all the C++ code used in RustDesk's build and will cause build errors. When an earlier version is installed, however, the `/usr/bin/c++` link might not be configured to run it. You may need to explicitly configure your system's alternatives mechanism, with a command such as `update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/c++ c++ ``which g++-13`` 13`, or manually create a symbolic link from `/usr/bin/c++` to the correct path for a compatible `g++` version.
```

The last also seems like a *bad* suggestion, though. Can't we just "shadow" the distro's `c++` for this build by providing an alternative one earlier in `$PATH`?

So setting

```shell
PATH=/somewhere/my/c++/compiler/for/this/build/lives:${PATH}
```

Author: Hmm, one thought occurs to me -- it isn't an uncommon practice for build scripts to respect environment variables `$CC`, `$CXX`, `$GCC`, `$GXX`. I wonder if it'd work to point them at `gcc-13` / `g++-13`.

    **You may need to rerun this command after pulling updates to the underlying Rust code in the RustDesk repository or in `hbb_common`.**

1. Underlying Rust Code

    1. The core of RustDesk is written in Rust. Most of the Rust code is local to the `rustdesk` repository, but there is a shared library `hbb_common` that is a separate crate, with its own independent Git repository under the RustDesk umbrella. When you do a fresh clone, the `hbb_common` submodule is initialized to the latest code in that repository, but if you have been developing for a while, it might fall out-of-date, and this can result in build errors or problems at runtime. So, if you are encountering problems, ensure that you have pulled the latest changes for `hbb_common`.

    1. The build of the Rust core crate underlying RustDesk is done using Cargo. The exact parameters to Cargo are important. The `build.py` script does the correct builds in sequence. At a minimum, the `--flutter` flag must be passed into `build.py`; without it, the resulting `librustdesk.dll` lacks the numerous exported functions that the Flutter front-end relies upon.

>         - Windows: The build processes underlying Rust crate compilation will require that the Visual C++ build tools be available in the ambient environment. Run these commands from a `Developer Command Prompt for Visual Studio`, or explicitly run `vsvars.

Author: This is what I'm going on here:

<img width="1176" height="921" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/da6ef517-2db9-458d-a550-2b9eb3a01f6f" />

<img width="1348" height="766" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/eb646134-6675-459f-a2c3-d559b0bba668" />

(It used to be named "Developer Command Prompt for Visual Studio"; the name changed with the upgrade to 2026 "Insiders". Trendy name. Plep. 😛)

>         - Windows: The build processes underlying Rust crate compilation will require that the Visual C++ build tools be available in the ambient environment. Run these commands from a `Developer Command Prompt for Visual Studio`, or explicitly run `vsvars.

Author: Oh shoot :-) Good catch.
